# News_Headlines_Analysis_for_Stock_Market_Prediction

The purpose of this project is creating a capable forecast model that uses news headline to predict the stock market trend. There is a thriving literature about the correlation between news and market trends (Alamsyah, Andry. Exploring Relationship between Headline News Sentiment and Stock Return. 2019), therefore the motivation behind this type of analysis arises from human impossibility to extract relevant information from news headlines for predicting index market trends useful in several fields, like crafting trading strategies. Regarding this, in the last years, many different approaches and tecnhologies have been emerging and affirming in the text mining and NLP field to extract relevant information from many different types of text (Cambria, Erik. Jumping NLP Curves: A Review of Natural Language Processing Research. 2019). I have applied some of them on a Kaggle dataset which includes the top 25 daily news headlines form June 8, 2008 to July 1, 2016 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DIJA) stock performance data during the same time period. The latter contains the OHLC (Open High Low Close) coordinates and the amount of daily volume.

# State of the art
I want to give a short review on the literature available on-line. dsciacca used LSTM and performed an analysis on the subjectivity/objectivity of the news headlines obtaining 55% accuracy https://github.com/dsciacca/predicting-stocks-w-headlines. Velay et.all in "Using NLP on news headlines to predict index trends" reaches an accuracy equal to 57% with logistic regression using different types of embeddings (word embedding, word2vec and tf-idf). Kalshani in "Stock Market Prediction using Daily News Headlines" uses LSTM with 52% as best accuracy. Zhu in "Predicting Stock Price Trends using News Headlines" exploits news-stock correlation and he reaches an accuracy equal to 53.42%. Poulos in "Predicting Stock Market Movement with Deep RNNs" used GRU and he reaches a best accuracy equal to 54%. In conclusion, the accuracy obtained in this work outperforms the previous ones.
